Guide enterprise ui (#1109)
solo-io/gloo-mesh: docs/content/guides/accessing_enterprise_ui.md

---
title: Using the Admin Dashboard
menuTitle: Using the Admin Dashboard
description: "How to access and use the Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard."
weight: 110
---

{{< notice note >}}
This feature is available in Gloo Mesh Enterprise only. If you are using the open source version of Gloo Mesh, this tutorial will not work.
{{< /notice >}}

When you install Gloo Mesh Enterprise, it includes the Admin Dashboard service by default. The service provides a visual dashboard into the health and configuration of Gloo Mesh and registered clusters.

In this guide, you will learn how to connect to the Admin Dashboard and the basic layout of the portal’s contents.

## About the Admin Dashboard

The Admin Dashboard runs on a pod in the Gloo Mesh Enterprise deployment and is exposed as a service. It does not have any authentication applied, so anyone with access to the Admin Dashboard can make changes to the resources managed by the Gloo Mesh. That bears repeating:

{{< notice note >}}
Anyone who can reach the Admin Dashboard has unauthenticated access to make changes to resources managed by the Gloo Mesh.
{{< /notice >}}

> Access to the Admin Dashboard should be restricted to only those who need to administer the Gloo Mesh. While the functions available in the dashboard are limited in nature today, more functionality will be added in the future. The `gloo-mesh-console` service is of the type ClusterIP, so it is not exposed outside of the cluster.

Reviewer: There are no plans to add create/update/delete actions to the gloo mesh dashboard, so we can soften this disclaimer. It is worth mentioning that viewers of the dashboard will be able to observe the configuration of the whole system.

Author: Updated the language.

## Connecting to the Admin Dashboard

The Admin Dashboard is served from the gloo-mesh-console service on port 8090. For this guide we are going to connect using the port-forward feature of kubectl. The following command assumes that you have deployed the Gloo Mesh to the namespace gloo-mesh. From a command prompt, run the following to set up port-forwarding for the gloo-mesh-console service.

> kubectl port-forward -n gloo-mesh svc/gloo-mesh-console 8090:8090

Reviewer: we also offer a `meshctl dashboard` command to simplify this step

Author: Added that information.

Once the port-forwarding starts, you can open your browser and connect to http://localhost:8090. You will be taken to a webpage that looks similar to this:

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard main page]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-main-page.png" %}})

Now that you’re connected, let’s explore the UI.

> ## Exploring the Admin Dashboard

Reviewer: Could you add a screenshot and some content about the policy and/or traffic target details views? These help show the usefulness of the UI as a way to inspect config.

Also it would be great to have a quick description and screenshot of the debug page. The debug page shows the underlying service mesh config generated by Gloo Mesh APIs and/or provided by the user in addition to Gloo Mesh config.

Author: More screenshots and information added.

The main page of the dashboard starts with an **Overview** of the resources under management of Gloo Mesh, such as *Clusters*, *Workloads*, and *Traffic Targets*.

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard resources]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-resources.png" %}})

Across the top of the page is a navigation bar with five options.

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard navigation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-navigation.png" %}})

* **Overview**: Provides a high-level overview of Gloo Mesh
* **Meshes**: Displays service meshes being managed by Gloo Mesh
* **Policies**: Displays defined RBAC policies for Gloo Mesh
* **Wasm**: Displays WASM deployments being managed by Gloo Mesh
* **Debug**: Displays full configurations for service meshes.

There is also a small gear to the right of the navigation elements, which will take you to the Admin area. 

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard gear]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-gear.png" %}})

> From there you are able to view clusters and role-Based access configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there you are able to view clusters and Role-based access configurations.
```

![Gloo Mesh Admin area]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-view.png" %}})

> The purpose of the Admin Dashboard is primarily to view the status of Gloo Mesh and managed resources, and not to make any changes. It is possible to register a new cluster through the dashboard, but that is currently the only alteration of Gloo Mesh that is possible.

Reviewer: Clusters can't be registered via the UI, the CTA opens a modal with CLI instructions for registration

Author: Fixed.

kubectl port-forward -n gloo-mesh svc/gloo-mesh-console 8090:8090

Once the port-forwarding starts, you can open your browser and connect to http://localhost:8090. You will be taken to a webpage that looks similar to this:

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard main page]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-main-page.png" %}})

Now that you’re connected, let’s explore the UI.

## Exploring the Admin Dashboard

The main page of the dashboard starts with an **Overview** of the resources under management of Gloo Mesh, such as *Clusters*, *Workloads*, and *Traffic Targets*.

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard resources]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-resources.png" %}})

Across the top of the page is a navigation bar with five options.

![Gloo Mesh Admin Dashboard navigation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admin-navigation.png" %}})

* **Overview**: Provides a high-level overview of Gloo Mesh
* **Meshes**: Displays service meshes being managed by Gloo Mesh

> * **Policies**: Displays defined RBAC policies for Gloo Mesh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Policies**: Displays defined traffic and access policies for Gloo Mesh
```
